A digital asset, is anything that exists in a binary format and comes with the right to use. Content that does not possess that right is not considered an asset. Digital assets include but are not exclusive to: digital documents, audible content, motion picture, and other relevant digital content that is currently in circulation or production.

As described in [What is a digital asset](https://www.realstorygroup.com/Blog/3140-What-is-a-digital-asset), the definition of a digital asset can be put like this:
> In theory, a digital asset is something represented in a digital form that has an intrinsic or acquired value. This initial definition is intentionally general. It could correspond to almost anything or any piece of media in a digital form, such as a photo, website, or email message. As a practical matter, however, DAM [Digital Asset Management] has evolved to support the management of digital media assets almost exclusively. This includes images, video, audio, and related artifacts (such as brochures and compound publications). You would typically use different types of technology to manage email, Word documents, relational data records, and web pages. Even some image “assets” don’t fall under the domain of DAM technology as it is known today. Scanned paper or forms that end up as TIFF or PDF files do not constitute media assets that originate through some creative process.

All digital assets are content, and some content can include, link to, or refer digital assets. Content can furthermore be transformed (rendered) into digital assets, such as when exporting a PDF. 